If you hear someone demanding the
establishment of a Palestinian state
on the borders of the 4th of June 1967 borders,
with Eastern Jerusalem as its capital,
leading to negotiations with Israel,
then think a little bit before you
agree with what you have just heard.
Even linguistically,
Listen and pay attention.
The talk is about a state that
its borders were drawn
by the the wars of 1948 and 1976.
The first war armistice line produced the map,
and the second war produced the
acceptance of your rulers of it;
a country whose borders
were drawn by two defeats
that invites you to a trade:
accept your first defeat and we
will absolve you from the second.
A country that was designed by
your enemy’s weapon twice.
Just like a sculpturer with a chisel
and a potter with clay.
The matter is beyond refusing
to have a country of your
own bordered by defeats.
The establishment of a Palestinian state
on the boarders of one day before the Naksa
(Translator: lit. the Setback. A.k.a. the Six-Day War)
ensures an eternal perpetuation of Naksa.
It will be a militarily fragile state
and an economic satellite to Israel.
Everyone who rules it is obliged to
be an occupation proxy;
to take its place
and do its works.
Either that,
or to collapse.
If you doubt, look at the map.
This state will be established, theoretically,
in the West Bank and in Gaza.
The West Bank will be the largest of its regions
and the political and the economical center.
Accordingly, its interest would be to
protect Israel from any assumed attack
coming from the eastern front for example.
Because Israel will prefer that
those battles would be waged,
if that attack happened,
in the lands of the Palestinian
state on the hills of the West Bank,
and not in the narrow costal plain
that was occupied in 1948
concentrating most of the immigrants who came
to the Hebrew state.
Many of us may not know,
because it is a kind of
an embarrassing information,
that the breadth of that plain in some places,
i.e. the distance between the hills of
the West Bank and the Mediterranean,
does not exceed 15km.
You, my friend, can cross Israel
in two halves from east to west
if you would amble,
as if you are walking your fiancé,
in less than three hours.
And in less than 10 minuets in your car.
And before the wheels of an airplane fold away from the runway.
For that, the Palestinian rulers
who accept to rule a Palestinian
statelet, that would be established in the West Bank,
will do everything they can
to have this state of theirs
as a protection buffer for Israel.
They know that failure
in doing that would necessarily mean
an Israeli invasion of their land
and the loss of their rule,
even the loss of their lives and
the lives of those who they love.
Their political interest, but rather the
personal one, would be to protect Israel,
not threating it.
Furthermore, this Palestinian state
would not only be an isolation
buffer between the Arabs and Israel,
but rather between it itself and its people.
Half of the people of that state:
one third of the West Bank
and two thirds of Gaza also
are refugees.
They originally come from
Galilee and the coast.
It must supress the violent actions stemming
from its territories against the Hebrew state.
Otherwise, Israel will have to secure it itself
which threatens the existence of a
Palestinian state all from the beginning too.
So, this Palestinian state would be
an ally to Israel
against half of its population
and against whoever wants to resist Israel
of this Ummah.
If they would say
that this country can build strength
and be a platform to liberate
the rest of Palestine,
then the price of its establishment is
the guarantee of Israel that nothing
of that would ever happen.
There you see the Security Coordination
and the military fragility,
are prerequisites for an autonomy in Palestine.
Let alone a country!
It will not be equipped but with police
weaponry directed at its own people.
Otherwise,
It is armless.
Even If it would arm, it would
be prone itself to invasion.
Even if it was allowed to be armed,
then how many centuries would it need
to build an industrial basis
to produce arms that would peer
its sponsoring superpowers, not Israel?
If you would say that
it can resist Israel in light arms
in guerrilla warfare style,
I would say that this is
effective and possible.
But it requires the transformation
of the rulers of this state
from rulers into freedom fighters.
They should undertake moving
from palaces to caves
which is rare in rulers.
Even if they would do it, this
means an end of the state
and reverting to the state
to which we started from
before the peace process;
occupation and resistance.
And the economy of this
state would be a satellite
just like the days of direct occupation;
businessmen who buy from Israeli factories
and sell their products in the West Bank
and construction workers behind the Green Line.
Whereas the poor and the rich
both dependent on Israel.
It [the state] would also depend on
conditional international donations
bound to its peacefulness towards Israel.
The state will promise its people
prosperity if they would surrender,
but that promise will never come true.
Because that state can never be democratic,
while half of its people are refugees
from the coast and Galilee,
and it was not established but in return
of its abdication of their right to return.
If it allowed them to hold fair elections,
then it would be highly probable
for them to come up with a government
that would annul peace treaties
that established the state from the beginning.
Thus, it is must for this
state to be autocratic
without effective elected institutions.
This also means the lack
of monitorship on money
because elected parliaments
were invented, to begin with, to
monitor the governments’ expenditure.
No money monitorship means
easy and rampant corruption.
This state will concentrate what it gets
in aid from its international sponsors
in the hands of the few of its rulers
which would further impoverish
the ruled ones and their misery.
Neither can the refugees return to their lands
in the coast and in Galilee,
attain political freedom,
nor would they be rich in a collective bribery
for relinquishing all their rights.
As autocracy leads to corruption
due to the lack of monitorship,
so does the corruption increase autocracy.
For the looters to protect themselves
from the anger of the looted ones.
This state would be another nightmare
just like the many of its
sisters in the Arab World;
a people whose money is looted,
of suppressed voice,
does not choose its rulers,
and its rulers do not protect it.
But rather, they protect its invaders from it.
They [the rulers] would tire it
[the people] to protect them [invaders].
The only difference between this state and
the original occupation,
is that this new one
will be called independence so it would last.
The Two-State solution is essentially
a consecration of apartheid.
Gives the invaders 80% of the land
where they have a strong army,
nuclear armament,
and independent economy.
While giving 20% of the land
only to the invaded ones
with no independent armaments or money.
It would relieve Israel
of half of the Palestinians between the
[Mediterranean] Sea and the [Jordan] River.
It is a solution that confines half of the
population in a fifth of the land
in return for their neutrality in war and
for letting down the other half.
A solution that you see today
while it is still a promise
that is dividing the Palestinians
and tempting some of them
of terms of slavery
that are a little better
than what the others get
so that all would get enslaved.
A solution that practically
deprives the Palestinian people
from the political and military effect
that is consequent to its majority
between the [Mediterranean]
Sea and the [Jordan] River
making the toppling of apartheid in the country
immeasurably harder.
The invader is usually tempted by his strength
and deceived by his greed.
Even though the Two-State solution
is the only guarantee
for the apartheid in Israel to stay.
The successive Israeli governments
are more inclined to the [political] right.
To the extremists and settlers
who covet to annex the West Bank.
It is as if Israel wishes from the
Palestinian National Authority
to serve it without even giving it
the tools necessary for its service.
A nominal independence is a
condition for practical slavery.
Just as practical slavery is a
condition for nominal independence.
Since Israel does not accept
the Two-State solution
coveting to annex the West Bank
and afraid, at the same time,
of the Palestinian demographic majority between
the [Mediterranean] Sea and the [Jordan] River,
the solution that its leaders discovered today
was the same as the one discovered by their ancestors:
a new Nakba (Palestinian Exodus); expelling
the Palestinians out of the West Bank
either directly or suddenly.
In preparation for that,
Israel is confining the largest number of them
in the least possible area of land
and annexes the rest.
That was the essence of
the Deal of the Century,
the reason behind applying the Israeli law
on the settlements
considering it as a part of the land of Israel,
[the reason] for the displacement of the
[Arab] people of Jerusalem
and more.
I would say that the Two-State solution
would consecrate autocracy, corruption,
and subjection
in the proposed Palestinian state
along with an apartheid
that seeks religious and
ethnic cleansing in Israel.
It is a solution that elongates the life of
the apartheid in Israel.
But the greed and the conceit of the invaders
made them kill that solution
seeking another Nakba
and take a land without its people.
But, once bitten twice shy.
There you see them incapable of
subjecting Gaza for long years.
So were they not capable of subjecting Sinai,
Beirut,
Tyre and Sidon,
nor the borderline of the South of Lebanon.
The arrogant is a loser.
The Israeli right-wing governments
is constantly marching towards
losing this struggle.
And we, if we do not let each other down,
are marching towards victory.
My father used to say:
A man cannot cross a chasm
in two jumps.
Neither can he cross it
while hanging in the air
in two stages.
Watchout for a loss
masquerading as a half victory.
It is not of greed for one to
demand for a complete equality
between him and the people.
But that who accepts
to be half a human,
would become a full scoundrel.
Do not get bluffed.
The page of history is before you.
Sign it as a freeman if you wish,
or as a slave if you wish.
The pen is in your hand.